Module 1: Data lifecycle (cf. Module 1): Relate your project to one or more of the lifecycle models discussed in class.

For this project, we have decided to relate it to the USGS Science Data Lifecycle model, which emphasizes the continuous management of data from acquisition to reuse. 
Plan: In this stage, we defined our research questions and identified the data requirements to answer them. Our project focuses on looking at the relationship between employment rates and median household income across the US. We chose datasets with shared attributes that would allow us to integrate and produce meaningful analysis.
Acquire: We collected the data from two sources: unemployment rate data from the Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED) using its API, and the median household income data from the U.S. Census Bureau. We selected these datasets as they are reliable. Transparent, and allow for long-term data collection. 
Process: In the processing stage, we prepare the data for analysis. This includes converting data formats into consistent variables, standardizing state names and abbreviations, filtering relevant columns, and structuring them into clear tabular formats. With the shared attributes, we are able to create a unified dataset. 
Analyze: After processing the data we are able to analyze it to identify relationships between income and unemployment. This includes having descriptive statistics, trend analysis over time periods, and visualizations such as scatter plots and line graphs to show relationships. This stage allows us to interpret patterns and findings to answer our research question. 
Preserve: To ensure that there is long-term access and reproducibility of our datasets, we can store our unchanged raw data in a directory, put the cleaned and integrated data in another, and have version-controlled scripts and workflows using GitHub. This can allow us to have all of our stages be available for reproduction in the future and allow others to see what we did and why 
Publish: The final stage involved the process of actually sharing results and artifacts. In this, we would share our complete project including the code, data, and documentation published on GitHub, have a final report document that shows our workflow and findings, and have metadata and documentation to support reuse and share our steps. This allows transparency and ensures others can reproduce our work or even build upon our work. 
Overall, this lifecycle-based approach ensures that our data is handled transparently, systematically, and reproducibly throughout our whole project.

